By subjective variables, as stated, we understand variables for which the information
can only be obtained from a respondent because the information exists only in his/her
mind.

Evaluations are seen by most researchers as concepts-by-intuition of attitudes. Examples of evaluative words are good/bad, positive/ negative, perfect/imperfect, excellent/poor, superior/inferior, favorable/unfavorable, satisfactory/unsatisfactory, sufficient/insufficient, advantageous/disadvantageous, useful/useless, profitable/unprofitable, and lucrative/unlucrative.

Importance is the next concept to discuss. The structure of an ¡°importance¡± assertion (ai) is (xIi), which means ¡°x is important.¡± This assertion has the same form as the assertions indicating evaluations. The only difference is that the subject complement is in this case an expression of ¡°importance.¡±

Feelings or affective evaluations have in the past been considered as belonging to evaluations (Bradburn and Sudman 1988; Van der Pligt and de Vries 1995). However, more recently, a distinction has been made between cognitive evaluations and affective evaluations or feelings

Subject complements of cognitive judgments pertain to
neutral connotations such as active/passive, small/big, limited/unlimited, aware/
unaware, reasonable/unreasonable, usual/unusual, regular/irregular, ordinary/
extraordinary, conservative/progressive, direct/indirect, big/small, slow/quick, left/
right, planned/unplanned, practical/impractical, flexible/inflexible, heavy/light, and
predictable/unpredictable. It is important to note that the main requirement is that the
subject complements do not represent ¡°evaluations,¡± ¡°feelings,¡± and ¡°importance.¡±

The second concept in the class of cognitions is a relationship between a subject
x and an object y. However, we need to make a distinction between two relationships:
causal relationships and similarity or dissimilarity and connectedness relationships.

Preferences are frequently asked in consumer research, in election studies, and in
studies of policies where items from the most preferred to the least preferred are compared.

Norms are also central to social research (Sorokin 1928; Parsons 1951; Homans
1965). Coleman (1990: 242) defines them as specifications of ¡°what actions are
regarded by a set of persons (o) as proper or correct.¡±

Policies are an important topic in political science research. They are used to
determine what the public thinks about different measures of the government.

Rights, specifically requests for an answer dealing with civil right issues, are often
queried in political science research (Sniderman et al. 1991).

An action tendency is what one intends to do in the future.

Expectations of future events (Graesser et al. 1994) are anticipations of events in
which the respondent is not involved.

Evaluative beliefs (aeb) can be represented by many different types of assertions.
Typically, they have a positive or negative connotation (Oskamp 1991). Assertions
presenting causal relationships are often used in this context. But because of their
evaluative connotation, they indicate not only a causal relationship but also an
evaluation of it. Therefore, they are called ¡°evaluative beliefs.¡± These assertions are
indicated by aeb. In case of a causal relationship, one structure is represented by
(xCye). Example 2.48 illustrates this:
2.48 The budget reform has led to prosperity in the United States.


By objective variables, we mean variables for which, in principle, information can
also be obtained from a source other than the respondent.

Behavior concerns present and past actions or activities of the respondent himself/herself.

An event represents another example of an objective variable. It pertains to other
people¡¯s actions that are presently ongoing or have occurred in the past.

Demographic variables are used in nearly all surveys and are mentioned in all
attempted classifications of data.

Often, information is requested in surveys about time and place of behavior or
events.

Quantities can also be specified by structure 2. The assertion that can be formulated
for quantities has the form (aqu = rDqu).

Assertions concerning procedures can be formulated similarly using structure 3 as
(apro = (rDpl, pro). An example is 2.63:
2.63 I go to my work by public transport




direct instruction; direct request; imperative-interrogative; declarative-interrogative; interrogative-declarative.





1. leave out the response scale
2. focus on closed-form questions and perhaps only ordinal, and continuous questions
3. focus on the degradation 
4. automate generation of questions, such as the agree and disagree with statements. 
5. to what extent do you agree or disagree with the following statement. 
6. the CDC has a topic list (about health behaviour), well-being
7. check Q-Bank question topic list


I should also reflect on the supervision:
- what questions do I have for daniel and dong?
- what do i think about the supervision? what went well? what went wrong?


Is the state of health services in your country good or bad?
Evaluate the state of health services in your country.

1. explain better why target words and gender base pairs are measures
because the big metric is the combination of target words, gender base pairs and bias metrics -> we cannot guarantee that every single submeasure is good -> here we zoom in and check the reliability of every part
2. harmonize bias metric, bias assessment, bias measurement

bias metric and training algorithm seem to be more important than the target word lexicon

Do you agree with the statement that the asylum seekers should be
allowed into our country but should adjust themselves to our
culture?